docs(v4): add migration guide from 3.x.x to 4.x.x (#3697)
refinedev/refine: documentation/docs/migration-guide/router-provider.md

---
id: router-provider
title: Migrating Router Provider from 3.x.x to 4.x.x
sidebar_label: Migrating Router Provider
---

## Motivation behind the changes

> Our motivation behind the changes in `routerProvider` and route handling is to make it flexible and easy to use for our users. By reducing our `routerProvider` definition to an interaction and connection point between **refine** and the router, we've get rid of the requirement for a `routerProvider` and the need to follow a specific way of defining routes. This will allow you to use any router you want with **refine**. Providing router bindings are all optional but we recommend passing them to **refine** to get most out of it.

Author: ```suggestion
Our motivation behind the changes in `routerProvider` and route handling is to increase flexibility and ease of use for our users.

By simplifying the routerProvider to just an interaction and connection point between refine and the router, we eliminated the need for a specific way of defining routes and a routerProvider altogether. This means that any router can now be used with refine. While router bindings are optional, we recommend passing them to refine for optimal usage.
```

> This change will also allow our users to adopt **refine** in their existing projects without having to change their existing routes and the structure of their application.

Author: ```suggestion
By making these changes, our users can integrate refine into their existing projects without needing to modify their current routes or application structure.
```

> In the end, we want to make it easy for our users to handle their use cases and not force them to follow a specific way of doing things. With the new router provider, you will be able to use routers the way you used to without compromising on the features **refine** provides.

Author: ```suggestion
Ultimately, our goal is to make it simple for users to handle their unique situations without enforcing a particular methodology. With the updated router provider, you can continue using routers in the same way as before, while still benefiting from the features that **refine** offers.
```

## Important Notes

> In the new router provider, we're not handling the authentication checks by the routes. If your app uses `authProvider` you'll need to handle those checks yourself. It will be easy to do so by using the `useIsAuthenticated` hook or the `Authenticated` components. Example implementations are present in the documentation (Check below for more info on each router) and in the example apps. 

Author: ```suggestion
With the new router provider, authentication checks are not handled by the routes. If your application utilizes authProvider, you will be responsible for performing those checks yourself. You can easily do so by employing the useIsAuthenticated hook or the Authenticated component, both of which are exemplified in our documentation (available under each router) and in our sample applications.
```

> The control of the routes and the route creation is left to the user. You'll need to create the routes manually and if you like, you can pass the routes to actions of your resources. Although we provide ways to create routes by your resources, which you can check out in the router you choose below. Route creation by resources is optional and not recommended for flexibility but it's there if you want to use it.

Author: ```suggestion
The creation and control of routes is entirely up to the user. You must manually create routes, and if desired, you can pass the routes to actions of your resources. Although we provide methods for generating routes from resources, these methods are optional and not recommended for optimal flexibility. However, they are available under each router if you choose to use them.
```

## Using the New Router Providers

We've created documents for each router we provide bindings for. You can check them out below:

### React Router v6

> When using `react-router-dom` and `@pankod/refine-react-router-v6`, you'll need to create your routes using `Routes`, `Route`, etc. and wrap the `<Refine>` component with the router you pick (e.g. `<BrowserRouter>`). Then, you can pass the `routerProvider` to the `<Refine>` component from `@pankod/refine-react-router-v4` and you can define your resource action path in the `resources` array. Our documentation will guide you through the process of creating routes and binding them to your resources with examples.

Author: ```suggestion
If you are using react-router-dom and @pankod/refine-react-router-v6, you will need to generate your routes using Routes, Route, and similar components, and then wrap the <Refine> component with your chosen router (e.g., <BrowserRouter>). Afterwards, you may pass the routerProvider to the <Refine> component from @pankod/refine-react-router-v4, and specify the paths for your resource actions in the resources array. Our documentation provides detailed instructions on how to create routes, associate them with your resources, and includes examples for reference.
```

[Check out the documentation for `@pankod/refine-react-router-v6`](#)
[Check out the documentation for `react-router-dom`](https://reactrouter.com)

### Next.js

> When using Next.js, you'll need to create your routes the same way you used to in Next.js, by the file system based routing. Then, you can pass the `routerProvider` to the `<Refine>` component from `@pankod/refine-nextjs-router` and you can define your resource action path in the `resources` array. Our documentation will guide you through the process of creating routes and binding them to your resources with examples.

Author: ```suggestion
If you are using Next.js, you will need to create your routes using the file system-based routing method as you would normally do in Next.js. Afterwards, you can pass the routerProvider from @pankod/refine-nextjs-router to the <Refine> component, and specify the paths for your resource actions in the resources array. Our documentation provides step-by-step instructions on how to create routes and associate them with your resources, complete with examples for your reference.
```

[Check out the documentation for `@pankod/refine-nextjs-router`](#)
[Check out the documentation for `Next.js`](https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started)

### Remix

> When using Remix, you'll need to create your routes the same way you used to in Remix, by the file system based routing. Then, you can pass the `routerProvider` to the `<Refine>` component from `@pankod/refine-remix-router` and you can define your resource action path in the `resources` array. Our documentation will guide you through the process of creating routes and binding them to your resources with examples.

Author: ```suggestion
If you are using Remix, you will need to create your routes using the file system-based routing method as you would normally do in Remix. Afterwards, you can pass the routerProvider from @pankod/refine-remix-router to the <Refine> component, and specify the paths for your resource actions in the resources array. Our documentation provides comprehensive instructions on how to create routes and associate them with your resources, along with examples to guide you through the process.
```
